Spam Classifier - Text Classification for SMS
This project implements a spam classification model using Machine Learning and SMS data. It can be used to identify spam messages based on their text content.

Data
The model is trained on the SMS Spam Collection dataset, which contains labeled SMS messages categorized as "ham" (not spam) or "spam".


Code Overview
1)Data Loading and Cleaning:
The script loads the SMS Spam Collection dataset using pandas.
Text cleaning steps are applied, including:
Removing non-alphanumeric characters.
Converting text to lowercase.

2)Tokenizing words.
Removing stop words (common words like "the", "a", "an").
Stemming words (reducing words to their base form, e.g., "running" becomes "run").

3)Feature Engineering:
CountVectorizer is used to transform cleaned text data into numerical features. This represents each message as a vector of counts for the most frequent words (5000 by default).

4)Model Training and Evaluation:
The Multinomial Naive Bayes classification model is trained on the features and labels.
The model is evaluated using a confusion matrix and accuracy score on a held-out test set.

5)Prediction:
The model can be used to predict the spam probability of new SMS messages by transforming their text into features and feeding them to the trained model.

6)Performance:
The provided code achieves an accuracy of approximately 98.4% on the test set.

7)Running the Script
Ensure you have Python 3 and the required libraries installed (pandas, nltk, scikit-learn). You can install them using pip install pandas nltk scikit-learn.

Place the script (spam_classifier.py) and the dataset (SMSSpamCollection) in the same directory.

Run the script from the command line:
```
Bash
python spam_classifier.py
```
This will print the model's accuracy and a confusion matrix.

Customization
You can experiment with different text cleaning techniques (e.g., removing URLs, emojis).
Try different feature extraction methods like TF-IDF (Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency).
Explore alternative classification algorithms (e.g., Support Vector Machines, Random Forest).


Further Exploration
Train the model on a larger or more diverse SMS dataset.
Integrate the model into a real-world application for spam filtering.
Explore more advanced techniques like deep learning for text classification.
